java c
Safety in the Rheology for Processing experiment
If you do not take care during this experiment you could be injured (mainly to hands or head). Therefore, do not start the experiment before a demonstrator has introduced the class.
1. Lab coats and safety goggles must be worn at all times.
2. The Rheometer is an extremely expensive and delicate machine, and it has to be used accordingly with all precaution and care. Make sure you have read and understood how to use it, or ask a GTA to demonstrate it for you. The user manual is located on the machine.
3. In the event of the rheometer not operating correctly, call the GTA or a technician and wait for their help. DO NOT attempt to fix it on your own.
4. Safety spectacles, lab coats and gloves MUST be worn when operating the machine and while working with the polymers provided. Once you have mixed the fluids to produce the “slime”, it is allowed to remove your gloves to work with the slime. However, if you do so, please ensure you wash your hands before touching anything else.
5. Please make sure you operate in the safety of others as the lab is a shared space and you clean everything after your experiment has been completed.
If you have read and understood all safety instructions, then please sign Risk identification and declaration sheet and hand it to your demonstrator before start of the lab.
Important note about lab etiquette: 
If a group's work area is not left in the same state (or neater) as it was found, they will be penalised 10% of their total lab mark. If the general lab (floor, labstools, basins, etc) are not left in the state in which they 
are found in the morning (or neater), the entire cohort present in the lab that day will be docked 10%. These mark penalties are additive. 
Use of Rheology to Guide Polymer Processing
Aim The aim of this experiment is to   learn the   use   of the   rheometer to   perform   studies   on   flow   and   oscillatory   properties   of   various   materials.   This   would   strengthen   the   understanding   that   these   properties   play   a   fundamental    part   in    processing    materials   and    have   often   to    be    considered    before    production.    In   this   laboratory you   will   explore   a   range   of   materials to   understand their   rheological   properties. You   will then   setup a matrix of samples with known composition to establish a set   of viscoelastic   properties.   In the final   part   of   the   lab,   you   will   be   asked   to   use   this   information   to   predict   the   conditions   needed   to   prepare   a   cross-linked polymeric material within given processing properties and windows   and analyse the   outcome   of your experiment.
Intended learning outcomes 
At the end of this experiment students   will   be   able to:
•          Understand the   key working   principles   of the   Rheometer   and the   different types   of tests.
•          Know   how   to   measure the   viscosity   and   modulus   of   very   different   materials,   understanding   how   crucial the   role of theology   is   in daily   processing applications.
•          Recognise differences in materials by their rheological data, differentiating      between    viscous,   viscoelastic andelastomeric and differentiate between   Newtonian and non-Newtonian behaviour.
•          Synthesise   “silly putty” with different concentrations and relate quantities to its cross-linking ratio.
•          Use   pre-set data to fabricate   a   material   with the   required   processing   andrheological   properties.
•          Use a   laboratory   book   appropriately   to   record   prelab   work,   experimental   procedure   and   results.
Lab bookkeeping You   are   training   to   be   material   scientist   and   engineer   and   therefore   accurate   record   keeping   is   a   critical   skill.   It   is   important that you   use   your   lab   book for   prelab   work,   to   record your   procedure,   key   findings   or   observations,    and    make    notes    throughout    your    experiments.    These    may    include    calculations,    written   comments   or   notes,   sketches,   or   tabulated   results.   The   quality   of your   (individual)   record   keeping   will   be   monitored and evaluated during the   experiment.
Safety and Good Laboratory Practices Being a good materials scientist also involves working following the safety restrictions and learning to share   spaces with   other   peers   and   members   of staff   respectfully. This   involves   learning to   setup   a   lab   space   and   cleaning/tidying after yourself together with your group. At the end of the experiment you will   be expected   to have cleared up your working space and the equipment in   use. Any   pieces   of fractured samples will   have   to   be   disposed   of   according   to   the   initial   directions   of   the   GTAs   and   instructions   in   the   risk   assessment   associated with the experiment. Points will betaken off   your final assignment if   these practices as described   are   not followed.1. Introduction:Measuring   materials   properties   is   not   always   as   straightforward   as   measurements   of   tensile   or   bending   strength.   Some   materials   possess   way   more   complex   mechanical   behaviours   that   can   only   be   described   through   complex   analyses   of their   intrinsic   properties.       For   example,   the   description   of   the   behaviour   of   vulcanised    rubber    needs    to    take    into    account    the    incredible    intrinsic    restorative      properties    that    this   material   uses   due   to   its   complex   chemical   structure.   In   its   use   in   tyres,   the   material   needs   to   be   able   to   deform,   but   also   to   restore   to   its   original   shape   without   external   forces   being   applied   to   it.   At   the   same   time,   it   cannot   deform   spontaneously,   but   needs   to   be   rigid   enough   to   hold   its   shape   as   prepared.   Two   questions    come    to    mind    immediately:    first,    what      allows      it    to      hold      the      shape      while      still      supporting   distortion? Second, what causes   it to   restore   its   shape   once deformed?The   answers   to   these   questions   are   the   viscoelastic   properties   of   the   material.   Choosing   these   correctly   gives an ideal   behaviour for the selected application. Choosing these incorrectly will   lead to a material that   is either too stiff and suffers fracture, or   too   fluid   and   hence   cannot   hold   its   own   shape.   In   this   laboratory   exercise, you will explore the   use of   rheology to assess the viscoelastic   properties   of   a   polymeric   material,   and   hence   learn to   use these   properties to form. a   material   with desired   behaviour.Cross-Linking of Polymers Polymeric   materials are   useful   in a variety of applications. The   various   processing   methods   applied to   the   same    precursor    materials    will   yield    dramatically    different    resulting    materials    with    a    diverse    range    of   applications.   Common   examples   of cross-linking   are   observed   in   rubber tyres, tightly   curled   hair,   contact   adhesive or semi-solid gel   materials.   Each of these examples exhibits a different type of cross-linking, from   rigid sulphur bonding in the case of tyres, to sulphide group linking   in   hair and from fixed   covalent   bonding   in a contact adhesive to   relatively weak   hydrogen   bonding   ingels.Taken   individually,   polymeric   molecules will   arrange   in   multiple geometric configurations.   Some   of these   will have relatively high interaction cross-sections with the molecules around them. The level of interaction   between    the    polymers      is      dependent      on      the      chemical       make-up    of    each      chain,      and      what      forms      of   intermolecular   interaction   are therefore   possible. The   weakest   of   these,   van   der   Waals   interactions,   are   observed in unbranched chains of a   polyethylene material. As branching   is   increased   in the   polymer chain,   the   side   branches   will   act   to   increase   the   level   of   interaction   and   hence   increase   the   resistance   of   the   material to deformation.The   introduction   of   hydroxy,   sulphur   or   nitrogen groups   introduces   the   possibility   of dipole   or   hydrogen-      bond    interactions,    which    are      several      orders    of      magnitude      stronger.      These      forms      of      interaction      will      therefore   create   materials that   are   more   resistant to   deformation,   but   can   still   be   pulled   apart   relatively      easily.   Due to the transient   nature   of   the   bonding,   these   bonds   can   also   be   used to   create   “self-healing”   materials as the   bonds can   reform. on the edges   of   the   material.The strongest   form. of cross-linking, achieved   through chemical reaction, is   the   formation of covalent bonds   between   polymer   molecules. The   more covalent   bonds   are established   between the   molecules, the   more   rigid the   material will   become.   However,   unlike   hydrogen   bonded   cross-linking,   in the event of the   bonds   being   broken, they will   not spontaneously   reform.During the second worldwar James Wright   was   researching   methods   to   create   synthetic   rubber   as   there   was   a   high   demand   and   shortage   of   rubber.   In   the   process   of   these   explorations,   he   found   a   method   to   create   a   cross    linked    polymer    material   that   exhibited   some    unusual    properties.    His    reaction    involved   boron-mediated   chain   breaking   and   hydroxy-boron   bonding   to   link   poly-methoxysilane   molecules.   The   resulting   material would   bounce   if dropped, and could   be   pulled or   pushed   into   a   rigid   shape.   However,   if left to   rest, the   material would shift   its   shape to   adopt   the   lowest   energy   shape   for   the   environment,   i.e.   it would flow. If pulled slowly, the material could stretch out into   along   strand,   but with   a   large   rapid force   applied,   it would shear   and   break.   Ultimately   deemed   useless   at the time,   it   was   a   material that   went   on   to   be   branded   as “Silly   Putty”   (or   slime),   and   ended   up   creating   a   multi-billion   dollar   company   in the   toy   industry!
Cross-linking   also   has   fundamental   industrial   applications   and   you   should   explore   some   of   these   in   your   own write-up.
Measurement of properties – Rheology Rheology 
Rheology   is   a tool   to   study   and   measure the   deformation   (flow)   of   matter   upon the   application   of   stress   (or strain),   by analysing the   internal   response of   materials to forces.This   study   can   be   carried   out   by   observing   and   recording   the   behaviour   of   a   material   when   subjected to   linear or oscillatory stresses, and it   is   useful   to   characterise   many   materials,   from   low   viscosity   Newtonian   fluids   (including   water   and   air)   to   soft   materials   with   high   viscosity.   It   can   also   be   applied   to   materials   having    complex    structures      such      as      suspensions,       emulsions,      polymers,    gels,       bodily    fluids    and      other   biological   materials.    Some of these soft   materials can exhibit   a   unique   complex   behaviour   that   cannot   be   characterised   by   standard   mechanical   testing.   These   materials   in   fact   exhibit   a   “viscoelastic”   behaviour,   they   respond   in a viscous or elastic way, depending   on the speed   or   the   amplitude   of the   shear   applied   to   them.
When   defining   viscoelastic   properties   of   a   material,   it   is   important   to   introduce   G   defined   as   the   shear   modulus of a   material.   G   is a complex   number   made   by an   imaginary   and   a   real   component   as   per   below:
G   =   G ′ +   iG"The storage modulus G′ describes the elastic properties of a material and the loss modulus G" describes the viscous properties of a material.   In other words,   G′(storage   modulus)   could   be   related to the   Young’s   Modulus   E, and G" (loss   modulus) could   be   related to   the   shear   modulus. 
Read Appendix 1 to   know   more on   how this equation   can   be derived.  
Figure 1: Description of the broad range of Rheological properties and behaviours of different materials. :Newtonian behaviour: fluids   exhibiting   such   behaviour will   have   a   stress   response   linearly   proportional   to the shear rate, and the proportionality constant will   be the viscosity.   Examples are Water, Air   and   some   Organic Solvents.
Viscoleasticity: The    property    of    a    substance    of    exhibiting      both      elastic      and    viscous      behaviour      when   deformed, therefore   exhibiting   a   time-dependent   strain. Their   viscosity   value   will   be   straindependent.
•             Elasticity:   A    material   is   called   elastic   if   the   deformation   produced   in   the   body   is   reversible   (the   object will   return to its   initial shape and size when   these   forces   are   removed)
•          Viscosity:   Viscosity   is   a   measure   of   a   fluid's   resistance   to   flow.   A   material   will   be   purely   viscous   if   all   the 代 写MATE40005 Use of Rheology to Guide Polymer ProcessingMatlab
代做程序编程语言  shear   stress   is   transformed   in   strain.   (the   object   will   not   return   to   its   initial   shape   once   forces are   removed)These   differences   in   viscous   to   elastic   behaviour   are   due   to   a   characteristic   internal    material   time   of   relaxation. If   this time is very short, compared to the time of deformation applied, the material   will behave   in   a viscous   way.   This time   for   water   is,   for   example,   10-10s,   meaning   that   any   standard   deformation   will   be   always   longer   and the   material will   behave   in   a viscous way.   If on the   contrary,   the   material   exhibits   a   very   long   intrinsic time   compared to   external   stresses,   it will   mostly   behave   elastically.   Time   dependency   is extremely crucial   in   Rheological   measurements.Polymers   are   viscous   fluids.   Silicone   putty   is   a   good   example:   It   will   behave   like   an   elastic   body   if   it   is   subjected      to      a rapid deformation such       as       bouncing      on      the      floor      (recoverable      deformation).         The   stored energy makes the ball   bounce back.   On the   other   hand,   if you   hold the   putty   at   rest for   a long time,   it will,   by the gravitational force   start flowing   down. This   flow   is   the   viscous   component   of   the   behaviour   of the silicone   putty.Non-Newtonian Behaviour: Some   of   the   viscoelastic   behaviour   can   be   more   complex,   with   G’   and   G”   varying depending on shear   rate. Two examples of this   behaviour   are   shear-thickening   and   shear   thinning      substances.   Most   liquids, suspensions   orgel   materials will flow faster the   harder they   are   pressed.   This   is      known   as   shear thinning   (G’>G”   at   low   shears   and   at   high shears   G”>G’   meaning that the   material   acts   as      a solid at low shears and as a liquid at high shears). However in some cases the opposite effect   is observed,      and the   materials   experience   reduced flow   with   increased   pressure,   which   is   known   as   shear   thickening      (G”>G’ at   low shears and at   high shears   G’>G”   meaning that the   material   acts   as   a   liquid   at   low   shears   and      as a solid   at   high   shears).
Shear-thickening   examples: cornstarch   + water, silly   putty,   quicksand Shear-thinning examples:   blood,   paints, toothpasteThis   is due to   Interactions   between the   molecules within the structure. Therefore,   it   is   possible   to   tailor   a   material    to    select    between    shear-thinning    and    shear-thickening,      at      least      in      principle.      For      polymeric   materials,   especially   those that   are   cross   linked,   this   parameter   can   be   controlled through   consideration   of the   average   molecular   weight   of the   polymers,   the   extent   of   cross-linking,   and the   amount   of   solvent   included   in the   matrix.
Tailoring rheological properties for processing and production The   longer   a   polymeric chain   (i.e. the   larger the   molecular weight   of the   polymer),   the   more   cross   linking   can occur between that polymeric chain and a neighbouring chain.   This   will lead to a more shear-thickening   material.   If the amount of cross-linking increases too much, then the material will   become too stiff to ever   exhibit any flow and   hence will   be   prone to fracture.   So there   is   a   careful   balance   between   increasing the   cross   linking to   increase   shear-thickening,   and   keeping   it   low   enough to   still   allow flow   of the   material,   if   shear thickening   is the desired   principle.It   is   important   to   realise   that   not   all   polymers   that   are   cross-linked   will   flow.   The   conditions   of   flow   are   regulated as well   by properties such as the glass transition temperature,   melting point and decomposition   or   boiling   point of the   polymer.   Some   polymer   materials   are   solid   at   room temperature   and will   undergo   chain   breaking at elevated temperatures   before they   reach a stage of flowing.   Others   will   form   crystalline   solid structures that   behave quite differently.It   is   also   important   to   recognise   that   in   many   cases,   it   is   the   presence   of   transient   hydroxyl   interactions   that will   lead to   the   properties   such   as   shear-thickening. Therefore,   the   extent   of water/hydroxy   groups   present in the   material   becomes an important consideration.
Also    worth    noting    is    that    polymeric      materials      are      not      alone      in      exhibiting      properties      such      as      shear-   thickening. Suspensions   in water can show the same   properties.
Shear-thinning   materials   will   follow   exactly   the   opposite   behaviour.   If there   is   no force   applied,   they   will   hold their shape, while if a force   is applied,   they   will   become   fluid   and flow.Many   layered structures,   such   as   hydrated   clays, will follow the   same   behaviour. This   can   be   a   significant   problem   (such   as the   case   of the   Leaning Tower   of   Pisa),   or   a   significant advantage   (such   as   clays   used   in   pressure transfer   in synthetic diamond   production).
Applications of Rheology in Processing: When      in      processing      and      production,      the      rheological      behaviour      of      materials      can      affect      the      final   applications.   Examples   of   applications   include   injectability,   extrusion   moulding,   dip   coating,   spreading   (lotions and   paints) and jetting   (inks).It is important to be able to properly tailor and characterise the   rheological   behaviour of viscous fluids and   viscoelastic    materials    before    their    application    in    processing    techniques.      Improper    characterisation    of   shear-thickening fluids   could   causestall   or   damage   on   equipment when   not accounted for   and   the   same   is true for shear-thickening   liquids that,   if   not   accounted for,   could   lead   to   poor   mixing,   cavitation   or   fast   flow extrusion.   In   Figure 2, the working windows for   different   processes   are   reported   and   compared with   the working   range of the   rheometer you   have available   in the   lab.  
Figure 2: Rheological window of uses in shear rate for different processing techniques, compared with 
Rheometer range. 
Types of Rheological tests: The   Rheometer   is   an   instrument   essentially   composed   of   2   parts   (although   very   expensive   ones).   The   rotating    top    geometry    (can      be      interchanged    from      cone    to      flat,      depending      on      the      type      of      samples   measured)   and   a   bottom flat   plate. The   sample   is   placed very tightly   in   contact   with the   2   surfaces   and   is   subjected to   a   controlled   strain   or   strain   rate   and the   parameter   recorded   is the   stress   in   the   material   in   response to the   applied strain.
Flow tests. These tests are   usually carried out on   Newtonian fluids, where the viscosity is constant. They can   however   also   be   used   to   observe   the   change   in viscosity   with   shear   rate   for   non-Newtonian   materials.   Flow   tests   are based on measurements in controlled   shear   rate, the   rheometer   applies   a   rotational   speed   (w (rad/s)),   translated   into   a   shear   rate   (y(̇),   s-1)   and   the   measured   data   is   a   torque   force   that   the   material   exerts   in   response to the   plate   rotating,   recorded therefore   as   a shear stress   (τ (Pa)).   To   obtain   the   viscosity   η   of   a   material the equation   below   (also   referred to as   Newton’s   Law)   is   used:  
Figure 3: Flow test mechanism and plots obtained using arheometer with relevant equations. 
Oscillatory tests. Oscillation   tests   are   normally   used   to   measure   the   viscoelastic   properties   of   materials.    By   imposing   a   sinusoidal wave (stress) in   oscillation, varying with time, on the material we can   measure   both the   viscous   component   and   the   elastic   component   by   measuring   the   resulting   sinusoidal   strain   on   the   material   and   the   phase   angle   δ,   the   difference   between   the   input   and   the   output   waves.   When   the   behaviour   of   a   material is purely elastic, δ   will be 0°, as stress and strain will be in phase. When the behaviour of a material   is   purely   viscous   instead,   with   stress   and   strain   out   of   phase,   δ   will   be   90°   .       Viscoelastic   materials   are   somewhere   in the   middle   between these 2   behaviours and will   exhibit a   phase   angle   comprised   between   these two   ideal cases depending on the   rate   of deformation.
Figure 4: Oscillatory test    mechanism with associated    mechanical    sinusoidal response    using a    rheometer with relevant equations. The       output       graph          of          a       rheometer          in       small          amplitude       oscillatory          measurements          (SAOS)       will   show the storage    modulus (elastic part G’) and loss       modulus    (viscous part G") as      a      function      of      test   frequency   (“)   (as   in   Fig   5). The   phase   shift   is   often   expressed   as   loss tangent   (tan δ)   that   is   equal   to   the   energy   lost to   energy   stored   (G"/G’),   describing   the   relative   degree   of viscoelasticity. The   modulus value   at this   point   is   called the   cross-over   modulus   and   this   indicates   the   state   of   matter   is   crossing   over   from   liquid to solid (onset of gelling) or viceversa.   Different types test   setups   can   be   arranged which   are   strain or   stress   sweep,   frequency   sweep,   temperature   sweep   and   time   sweep.      (Practical   Food   Rheology:   An   Interpretive Approach   pp148-149).We will be applying the frequency sweep test during this lab demonstration to   investigate time-dependent   shear   behaviour of your   polymeric   material.    High frequency   represents short term   behaviour   (remember   the    bouncing    putty    example),    and    the    low    frequency    represents    the    long   term    behaviour    (stretching   putty).    In general elastic response is prominent for the short time   and viscous   behaviour for the   longtime   tests.    In frequency   seep   tests,a sinusoidal   strain   (or   stress)   of   fixed   amplitude   is   applied   on   the   material,   and the dynamic   moduli are determined over a   wide   range   of   frequencies.  
Figure 5: Example Plot of frequency dependence of G" and G’ . 
2. Experimental procedure 
Task 1 (spend no more than 1 hour on this task) 
Materials   needed:   syringes   (without   needle   -   5ml   or   20ml),   plastic   beakers   (10   per   table),   solutions   as   listed   below, stirring sticks.You   have   been   provided with   multiple   materials   in various forms.   In this   portion   of   the   practical, you   will   need to experiment with each   and   predict whether each is shear-thinning or shear-thickening,   Newtonian   or viscoelastic..   In order   to carryout this assessment, you should prepare the materials as described below   and   then   explore   the    behaviour   of   the    material   when:   stirred    rapidly,    poured   from   one    container   to   another,   and when forced to flow   out of   a   syringe.   Using   the theory   as   described   in   the   introduction,   you   should then   predict and discuss as a group   what   type   of   behaviour you   are   seeing.
•            Use distilled water as   provided.
•            Use the tomato   ketchup as   provided.
•            Use the   mayo as   provided.
•            Use the oil   as   provided.
•            Use the golden syrup as   provided.
•            Use the toothpaste   as   provided.
• Mix corn flour and water   2:1 volume   ratio.
•            Use the   hair gel as   provided.
•            Use the   rubber film as   provided.Observe,   as   shown   by   the   GTA,   how   the   rheometer   works   and,   once   you   have   explored   and   made   your   predictions      regarding    the    type      of       behaviour    of      each       material      (Newtonian,    shear      thickening,      shear   thinning),   consider   the   rheological   data   collected   for   a   single   material.   You   will   be   provided   all   the   other   sets   of   data   but   explore   only   one   material   at   the   rheometer.   All   materials   can   be   disposed   of   down   the   drain, except the   rubber.A GTA will carryout 2 different tests: Flow tests and Oscillatory tests, depending on the   material   provided.   The   GTA   will   setup   for   both   of   the   different   tests.   Compare   and   discuss   with   each   other   and   your   GTA   regarding      your      predictions      and      what      was      observed      in      the      data.      Try      to      explain      using      molecular   considerations,what is   happening   in each   material to cause the observed   rheological   data.
Discuss in the lab with GTA: What is the difference    between the various materials? Can these materials show more than one behaviour at the sametime? E.g. Viscoelastic  shear-thickening? 

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp
